hlmaterials - Nuclide Documentation
Written by Gethyn ThomasQuail, 6th April 2021

This document gives a general overview of what the materials.txt files is,
and how it's used in Nuclide, and why the decisions were chosen for the
current implementation. It is not an in-depth explanation of the format
itself.

The materials.txt is how the GoldSrc engine defined sounds for various
textures throughout the game. For example, crates make "wood" sounds,
vents produce metallic feedback, etc. It is an analogue to surfaceparms
for those familiar with idTech engines, this was just Valve Software's
way of doing it before adopting standards.

In stock Half-Life, this file is located at:

sounds/materials.txt

It is allowed to be overwritten by a modification, and users could customize
the file on the client-side only for themselves. This means there was no
map specific materials, and mods could not inherit HL's materials, so
mods would always have to manage a nearly duplicate file if they desired
custom texture sounds.

A few mods tried to remedy this problem, the following below is methods
documented so far:

- maps/MAPNAME.mat
Introduced in The Wastes.

- maps/MAPNAME_materials.txt
Convention by Andrew Lucas, creator of Trinity SDK, modeled after 
MAPNAME_details.txt

- materials_file "PATH/FILE.txt" via "worldspawn" entity 
Introduced in Sven Co-op 5.0

All these methods are supported by Nuclide, as one goal is to implement
conventions by not only Valve but the community as well.

In addition Nuclide has also implemented a way of giving modifications
their own inheritable materials file:

sounds/materials_UNIQUENAME.txt

The idea here is that any mod or even map pack can include ONLY the textures
used, and no longer will anyone have to manage a near-clone of materials.txt

For repackaging or modding purposes, if you desire to give your map custom
sound definitions, we recommend The Wastes method for individual maps, while
the Nuclide method should be used for Mods or Map Packs. We find these to be
the most clean and efficient way.

NOTE: We recommend only using materials text files for GoldSrc related modding purposes. It is inefficient for modern projects as there are much better
standards already supported in Nuclide. Keep in mind, it takes memory to load
big text files, and lots of text files adds up over play sessions.
